Calculator uses AR as a proxy for damage, even though it's not exactly damage - simplicity of calculation reasons; "optimizer" not useful when optimized for a single enemy in specific NG cycle

Problem: the calculator would always spit out some version of the Giant-Crusher, no matter the build

The GC is a Colossal Weapon and the heaviest weapon in the game, and has a minimum 60 STR requirement to even use, so it's not practical for most builds


_Elden Ring_, and more broadly all Souls games, use complicated and sometimes arcane math to calculate how much damage you do to an enemy when you hit it with a weapon. We as players often use AR as a proxy for a weapon's damage - that presumption is what this calculator is based on, in fact - but it's important to remember that AR is **not** identical to damage. The motion value (MV) of the attack you use and whether the attack has any special properties (like the counterhit multiplier on thrusting attacks) both can significantly affect damage, and that's not even getting into the defensive side of the equation. Enemies, of course, have varying resistances: a Holy damage attack that does 100 damage normally, for example, will do 20 damage to the Elden Beast and 140 damage to a Death Rite Bird. A basic soldier in the Gatefront Ruins at the start of the game will take significantly more damage than the same soldier enemy located in Elphael; the Gatefront soldier in NG+7 will take much less damage than that soldier in base New Game. Damage calculations in this game (and its From Software progenitors) are so context-specific that it usually doesn't make sense to compare weapons on that basis. But this can cause problems. To illustrate, let me introduce what I'm calling the "Giant-Crusher Problem."

The Giant-Crusher is a gigantic hammer that better resembles a boulder with a handle than it does a weapon; it is the weapon used by the NPC 'Great Horned Tragoth' (the same NPC that uses the Bull-Goat set) both as an ally in the Radahn fight and as an enemy in the Volcano Manor questline. It is a Colossal Weapon, the second heaviest weapon in the game at 26.5 units (after the Fingerprint Shield at 29) and has the highest single stat requirement in the game at 60 strength, a distinction it shares only with the Carian Regal Scepter's 60 intelligence requirement. 

The Giant-Crusher is an excellent weapon for a Strength build, doing some of the highest single-hit damage in the game. But it is by no means objectively the _best_ weapon in the game. On top of the extremely high stat investment required to use it, which makes it impractical for nearly every build except for a dedicated high-weight Strength-only build -- let alone if you want to powerstance weapons -- it is slow. For most builds, it is very possible to get better DPS out of a lighter and faster weapon that nevertheless has lower AR than the Giant-Crusher.

With the background out of the way, here's the problem: in the first functional build of this app, I noticed a troubling trend where no matter the character stats I entered, the code would inevitably recommend whichever version of the Giant-Crusher had an infusion that best matched the general direction of the build in question. 